---
title: Uppy version 0.6.0 released
date: 2016-06-30
author: arturi
published: false
---

We are happy to announce that we have just released Uppy 0.6.0. Even though it was mainly a refactor release, we have nonetheless also managed to teach Uppy a few neat and important new tricks, and we are quite proud of that.

We are still working hard on getting Uppy ready to meet the world as soon as possible. We aim to keep you updated on our development progress. In that light, let's go over the most important changes for this release.

## File Previews and Remote File Handling

* We have made a few changes that will help to improve visual clarity: Uppy now shows previews for images, and specific file icons for other types of files. 
* It is now also possible to select remote files in Uppy. Simply double-click a file from, for instance, Google Drive, and Uppy will then show it in a preview area. Good boy, Uppy!

## Accessibility and Acceptance Tests Stats

* We have been doing some more work on accessibility: from now on, when you switch tabs in Modal, it will focus on the first input in that tab.
* Everybody likes to see stats. That is why, on our website, you can now [view stats]((http://uppy.io/stats)) that show how acceptance tests are performing in various browsers. If a test is successful, that means Uppy will likely be able to load and upload files in that particular browser.

## Release Notes

Below, you can read the full list of changes for version 0.6.0.

- build: minification of the bundle (@arturi)
- build: revisit sourcemaps for production. can we have them without a mandatory extra request?
- build: supply Uppy es5 and es6 entry points in npm package (@arturi)
- build: switch to https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm-run-all instead of parallelshell (@arturi)
- drive: Make sure uppy-server does not explode on special file types: https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/d4dbxitjt8clo50/2016-05-06%20at%2022.41.png (@hedgerh)
- modal: accessibility. focus on the first input field / button in tab panel (@arturi)
- progressdrawer: figure out crazy rerendering of previews by yoyo/bel: https://github.com/shama/bel/issues/26, https://github.com/shama/bel/issues/27 (@arturi)
- core: substantial refactor of mount & rendering (@arturi)
- core: better state change logs for better debugging (@arturi)
- progressdrawer: improve styles, add preview icons for all (@arturi)
- server: Start implementing the `SERVER-PLAN.md`, remote files should be added to `state.files` and marked as `remote` (@hedgerh)
- test: Add pass/fail Saucelabs flag to acceptance tests (@arturi)
- website: Polish Saucelabs stats (social badge + stats layout) (@arturi)
- meta: Create Uppy logos (@markstory)
- website: fix examples and cleanup (@arturi)
- website: Add Saucelabs badges to uppy.io (@kvz)
- website: fix disappearing icons issue, `postcss-inline-svg` (@arturi)

We hope you enjoy this release. You will find us scratching at your door when we have more news!

The Uppy Team
