---
title: "Uppy 0.18: Dogumentation and The Golden Retriver"
date: 2017-09-15
author: arturi
published: false
---

Hi! Another month — a new Uppy release 🎉

## New documentation

Documentation for Uppy has been re-written, and now features chapters on Uppy’s settings and API, using various plugins, as well as running Uppy Server. Check it out: https://uppy.io/docs/. More chapters to come!

## The Golden Retriver

Golden Retriver, also known as `RestoreFiles` plugin, has been released as a public beta. For details, please refer to the previous post, [The Golden Retriever: Making uploads survive browser crashes](https://uppy.io/blog/2017/07/golden-retriever/), but the gist is: when enabled, this plugin will save uppy-state to localStorage on every change, and then if your browser crashes, or you accidentaly navigate away from a tab,later when you return, your uploads will resume like nothing happened. Spoiler: it uses Service Workers and IndexedDB.

## Multipart is now XHRUpload 

Multipart has been replaced by a more flexible XHRUpload, so that other plugins, like AWS S3, can depend on it.

## AWS S3

The `AwsS3` plugin can be used to upload files directly to an S3 bucket.

As of now, the AwsS3 plugin “decorates” the XHRUpload plugin. To upload files directly to S3, both the XHRUpload and AwsS3 plugins must be used:

```js
// No options have to be provided to the XHRUpload plugin,
// the S3 plugin will configure it.
uppy.use(XHRUpload)
uppy.use(AwsS3, {
  // Options for S3
})
```

Please find [more info and examples](https://uppy.io/docs/aws-s3/) in the docs.

## Transloadit `getAssemblyOptions`

We’ve added a `getAssemblyOptions` function option to the `Transloadit` plugin. This option can return an object or a Promise for an object to configure the Transloadit assembly. The returned object can contain params, a signature, and fields.

`getAssemblyOptions` is called on each file, so each file can return a different set of options. Files that returned the same options are bundled together and run through a single assembly. Files that return different options will be run through different assemblies.

This means that it is now possible to make assembly parameters depend on user input from eg. the `MetaData` plugin, and have different parameters for different files. It’s now also possible to generate very short-lived signatures on the server when an upload starts, by calling fetch inside the `getAssemblyOptions` hook.

## Webcam: 1, 2, 3 smile!

Webcam plugin now has a new exciting feature — ⏱ `countdown`. If you set it to 3 seconds, for example, then after pressing the capture button, Uppy will count to 3 before actually taking your selfie, so you’ll have the time to fix your hair:

```js
uppy.use(Webcam, { countdown: 3 })
```

## Tons of Uppy Server improvements

- Uppy Server uses Informer to display errors 
- Pictures from Instagram carousels show up inline
- Added uppy-server url as i-am header 
- Disable socket channel from restarting an already completed file download 
- Uppy client whitelisting has been made optional, you may use wildcard instead 
- Added master oauth redirect uri for multiple uppy-server instances
- Added options support for redis session storage on standalone server 
- Uppy-server can be started as a binary `uppy-server`
- Downloaded files are stored based on uuids 
- Upload state is store on redis (useful for Goldern Retriever plugin)

The Uppy Team
