---
title: "Day 1"
date: 2019-03-26
author: kvz
image: "https://uppy.io/images/blog/0.30/robodog-assemble.jpg"
series: 30 Days to Liftoff
---

## The countdown to 1.0

When we [started working on Uppy](/blog/2016/07/uppy-begins/) back in early 2016, all we had was a promising idea and the shared desire to launch file uploading into a new age. We had already been laying the groundwork with the development of [tus.io](https://tus.io/) and felt that all of this back-end power deserved a user-friendly front-end as well. 

We briefly entertained the idea of a proprietary uploader, but that just didn't feel right. So, just like we did with Tus, we decided to make our new project open source. Three years and a whopping 16.000 stargazers later — and we could not be happier. Well, apart from maybe just one thing: getting Uppy 1.0 out the door has proven harder than expected. Issues kept piling up, which led us down countless sidetracks and hurt our capacity to hammer out those final design goals. 

But now it's time for all that to change. That's why, starting today, we are allocating all of Transloadit's resources into making a big final push and getting Uppy ready for liftoff. Our goal is to launch on April 25, exactly thirty days from now. 

## A new post every day

For the next thirty days, everyone here at Transloadit is going to be working exclusively on tasks related to Uppy 1.0. That means the Uppy core team (obviously) and tus core team, our sdk teams, as well as our infra engineers, designers, content writers, and the founders themselves — we'll all be chipping in and doing our part to make sure this gets done. We're even adding someone new to the Uppy team. Everyone, say a big welcome to [Evgenia Karunus](https://github.com/lakesare)!). 

We're going to need all the help we can get, because there is a lot that still needs doing. We have added everything to a project board, so now it's time to get crunching and start checking tasks off that list. We thought it might be a fun idea to keep you updated on our day-to-day progresss, so we set ourselves an additional challenge: apart from getting Uppy ready for 1.0, we're also going to write a blog post about it every day, for thirty days. Starting with this one.

A post each day may prove hard to do, but we think it's worthwile. Not only does it really fit with the open way in which we have been developing Uppy for the past few years, but we also want to give you guys a look behind the scenes as we're getting ready for the home stretch. And maybe, you never know, we might even get some more of those delicious GitHub stars out of it. :star::star::star: 

## What's Uppy with you?

We'd love to hear what you think. Whether it is about Uppy in general, or specific issues you feel cannot be forgotten before 1.0, or maybe even about this blog post challenge itself — leave us a comment either here or on GitHub, or let us know on Twitter [links?]. 

And we can also use your help! As we've said, the issues have been piling up and since we are about to head deep into React Native land, issue busting is going to slow down. So, if you want to lend a hand with that, we would sure appreciate it!

See you tomorrow for the first progress update on Day 2 of our 30 Days to Liftoff!
