---
title: "Uppy 1.0: Man's best friend in file uploading"
date: 2019-04-25
author: artur
image: "https://uppy.io/images/blog/1.0/robodog-assemble.jpg"
published: false
---

Three years ago Transloadit was ready to replace their jQuery based browser integration with something new.
They posted a [job ad](https://transloadit.com/jobs/2015-10-front-end-developer/) in search for people to build it:

> In general we're looking for polished, well tested, carefully crafted products that are delightful to work with and use. So for this job it's not only important that you know JavaScript, but also how to make things look stunning and work well for end users.

> At your disposal are time, focus, and the core team ready to provide feedback, guidance, and anything else you need.

We set out to build something like a `transloadit-js-client`, but later agreed that: No, this needs to be an open source project. Something that could really be valuable even to people who did not use Transloadit.

People to this day ask me why we even need a file uploader. [Why bring JavaScript into this](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/blob/master/README.md#why-not-just-use-input-typefile) when we have a perfectly good `<input type="file">` HTML tag. Very reasonable :)

Running an uploading & encoding business for ten years though we found that in cases, the file input leaves some to be desired:

- We received complaints about broken uploads and found that resumable uploads are important, especially for big files and to be inclusive towards people on poorer connections (we also launched [tus.io](https://tus.io) to attack that problem). Uppy uploads can survive network outages and browser crashes or accidental navigate-aways.
- There’s the situation where people are using their mobile devices and want to upload on the go, but they have their picture on Instagram, files in Dropbox, or just a plain file url from anywhere on the open web. Uppy allows to pick files from those and push it to the destination without downloading it to your mobile device first.
- Accurate upload progress reporting is an issue on many platforms.
- Uppy integrates webcam support
- A larger drag & drop surface can be pleasant to work with. Some people also like that you can control the styling, language, etc to blend in more with their product and user base
- Sometimes you might want your uploads to happen while you continue to interact on the same single page.
- Uppy is aware of encoding backends. Often after an upload, the server needs to rotate, detect faces, optimize for iPad, or what have you. Uppy can track progress of this and report back to the user in different ways.

If you're going to be receving many, or large file uploads, and you can justify spending some kilobytes of JavaScript on addressing the above issues, Uppy may be for you.

Building all these features properly took a lot of time though, and two years after landing the job at Transloadit, I was [writing a post a job ad myself](https://transloadit.com/jobs/2017-02-open-source-frontend-dev/) as Uppy took serious proportions.

## (Maybe) talk about Uppy early history: idea, forming the team, early iterations and important early ideas and realizations



## Talk about past 30 days: biggest challenges and surprises. Just a general editorial overview from the team lead about the whole process of getting the final prep done



## Talk about 1.0: what does it contain, what can it do? Just sing its praises!

- Lightweight / easy on dependencies
- Small core, modular architecture. Everything is a plugin
- ES6, with transpiled ES5 versions available
- Usable as a bundle straight from a CDN, as well as a module to import
- Resumable file uploads via the open tus standard
- Robust: retries for all-the-things, avoid showing ‘weird errors’
- i18n support: Easily switch languages or supply your own copy
- Compatible with React (React Native in beta)
- Works great on mobile
- Works great with Transloadit. Works great without

- knows about encoding

## What isn’t in 1.0, and why not?

- Themable UI (just css)
- React Native is Beta
- Presets (became a wrapper: Robodog)

## What’s next for Uppy? (1.1 etc.)

https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#11