website/src/docs/informer.md, before:

---
type: docs
order: 24
title: "Informer"
permalink: docs/informer/
---

The Informer is a pop-up bar for showing notifications. When plugins have some exciting news (or error) to share, they can show a notification here.

```js
const Informer = require('@uppy/informer')

uppy.use(Informer, {
  // Options
})
```

[Try it live](/examples/dashboard/) - The Informer is included in the Dashboard by default.

## Options

### `id: 'Informer'`

A unique identifier for this Informer. Defaults to `'Informer'`. Use this if you need multiple Informer instances.

### `target: null`

DOM element, CSS selector, or plugin to mount the informer into.

### `typeColors: {}`

Customize the background and foreground colors for different types of notifications. Supported types are `info`, `warning`, `error`, and `success`. To customize colors, pass an object containing `{ bg, text }` color pairs for each type of notification:

```js
uppy.use(Informer, {
  typeColors: {
    info:    { text: '#fff', bg: '#000000' },
    warning: { text: '#fff', bg: '#f6a623' },
    error:   { text: '#fff', bg: '#e74c3c' },
    success: { text: '#fff', bg: '#7ac824' }
  }
})
```

### `replaceTargetContent: false`

Remove all children of the `target` element before mounting the Informer. By default, Uppy will append any UI to the `target` DOM element. This is the least dangerous option. However, you may have some fallback HTML inside the `target` element in case JavaScript or Uppy is not available. In that case you can set `replaceTargetContent: true` to clear the `target` before appending.

Commit message:

Add install instruction to each plugin documentation page.

website/src/docs/informer.md, after:

---
type: docs
order: 24
title: "Informer"
permalink: docs/informer/
---

The Informer is a pop-up bar for showing notifications. When plugins have some exciting news (or error) to share, they can show a notification here.

```js
const Informer = require('@uppy/informer')

uppy.use(Informer, {
  // Options
})
```

[Try it live](/examples/dashboard/) - The Informer is included in the Dashboard by default.

## Installation

> If you are using the `uppy` package, you do not need to install this plugin manually.

This plugin is published as the `@uppy/informer` package.

```shell
npm install @uppy/informer
```

## Options

### `id: 'Informer'`

A unique identifier for this Informer. Defaults to `'Informer'`. Use this if you need multiple Informer instances.

### `target: null`

DOM element, CSS selector, or plugin to mount the informer into.

### `typeColors: {}`

Customize the background and foreground colors for different types of notifications. Supported types are `info`, `warning`, `error`, and `success`. To customize colors, pass an object containing `{ bg, text }` color pairs for each type of notification:

```js
uppy.use(Informer, {
  typeColors: {
    info:    { text: '#fff', bg: '#000000' },
    warning: { text: '#fff', bg: '#f6a623' },
    error:   { text: '#fff', bg: '#e74c3c' },
    success: { text: '#fff', bg: '#7ac824' }
  }
})
```

### `replaceTargetContent: false`

Remove all children of the `target` element before mounting the Informer. By default, Uppy will append any UI to the `target` DOM element. This is the least dangerous option. However, you may have some fallback HTML inside the `target` element in case JavaScript or Uppy is not available. In that case you can set `replaceTargetContent: true` to clear the `target` before appending.
