website/src/docs/instagram.md, before:

---
type: docs
order: 53
title: "Instagram"
permalink: docs/instagram/
---

The Instagram plugin lets users import files their Google Drive account.

An Uppy Server instance is required for the Instagram plugin to work. Uppy Server handles authentication with Instagram, downloads the pictures and videos, and uploads them to the destination. This saves the user bandwidth, especially helpful if they are on a mobile connection.

```js
const Instagram = require('@uppy/instagram')

uppy.use(Instagram, {
  // Options
})
```

[Try live!](/examples/dashboard/)

## Options

```js
uppy.use(Instagram, {
  target: Dashboard,
  serverUrl: 'https://server.uppy.io/',
})
```

### `id: 'Instagram'`

A unique identifier for this plugin. Defaults to `'Instagram'`.

### `target: null`

DOM element, CSS selector, or plugin to mount the Instagram provider into. This should normally be the Dashboard.

### `serverUrl: null`

URL to an Uppy Server instance.

### `locale: {}`

Localize text that is shown to the user.

The default English strings are:

```js
strings: {
  // TODO
}
```

Commit message:

Add install instruction to each plugin documentation page.

website/src/docs/instagram.md, after:

---
type: docs
order: 53
title: "Instagram"
permalink: docs/instagram/
---

The Instagram plugin lets users import files their Google Drive account.

An Uppy Server instance is required for the Instagram plugin to work. Uppy Server handles authentication with Instagram, downloads the pictures and videos, and uploads them to the destination. This saves the user bandwidth, especially helpful if they are on a mobile connection.

```js
const Instagram = require('@uppy/instagram')

uppy.use(Instagram, {
  // Options
})
```

[Try live!](/examples/dashboard/)

## Installation

> If you are using the `uppy` package, you do not need to install this plugin manually.

This plugin is published as the `@uppy/instagram` package.

```shell
npm install @uppy/instagram
```

## Options

```js
uppy.use(Instagram, {
  target: Dashboard,
  serverUrl: 'https://server.uppy.io/',
})
```

### `id: 'Instagram'`

A unique identifier for this plugin. Defaults to `'Instagram'`.

### `target: null`

DOM element, CSS selector, or plugin to mount the Instagram provider into. This should normally be the Dashboard.

### `serverUrl: null`

URL to an Uppy Server instance.

### `locale: {}`

Localize text that is shown to the user.

The default English strings are:

```js
strings: {
  // TODO
}
```
