website/src/docs/plugins.md, before:

---
title: "List & Common Options"
type: docs
permalink: docs/plugins/
order: 10
---

Plugins are what makes Uppy useful: they help select, manipulate and upload files.

- **Acquirers (various ways of picking files):**
  - [Dashboard](/docs/dashboard) — full featured sleek UI with file previews, metadata editing, upload/pause/resume/cancel buttons and more
  - [DragDrop](/docs/dragdrop) — plain and simple drag and drop area
  - [FileInput](/docs/fileinput) — even more plain and simple, just a button
  - [Provider Plugins](#Provider-Plugins) (remote sources that work through [Uppy Server](/docs/uppy-server/)): Instagram, GoogleDrive, Dropbox
  - [Webcam](/docs/webcam) — upload selfies or audio / video recordings
- **Uploaders:**
  - [Tus](/docs/tus) — uploads using the [tus](https://tus.io) resumable upload protocol
  - [XHRUpload](/docs/xhrupload) — classic multipart form uploads or binary uploads using XMLHTTPRequest
  - [AwsS3](/docs/aws-s3) — uploader for AWS S3
- **Progress:**
  - [ProgressBar](/docs/progressbar) — add a small YouTube-style progress bar at the top of the page
  - [StatusBar](/docs/statusbar) — advanced upload progress status bar
  - [Informer](/docs/informer) — show notifications
- **Helpers:**
  - [GoldenRetriever](/docs/golden-retriever) — restore files and continue uploading after a page refresh or a browser crash
- **Encoding Services:**
  - [Transloadit](/docs/transloadit) — manipulate and transcode uploaded files using the [transloadit.com](https://transloadit.com) service

## Common Options

Each plugin can have any number of options (please see specific plugin for details), but these are shared between some:

### `target`

Can be a `string` CSS selector, a DOM element, or a Plugin class. Consider the following example, where `DragDrop` plugin will be rendered into a `body` element:

```js
const Uppy = require('uppy/lib/core')
const DragDrop = require('uppy/lib/plugins/DragDrop')
const uppy = Uppy()
uppy.use(DragDrop, { target: 'body' })
// or: uppy.use(DragDrop, { target: document.body })
```

While in this one, we are using the `Dashboard` plugin, which can act as a host target for other plugins:

```js
const Uppy = require('uppy/lib/core')
const DragDrop = require('uppy/lib/plugins/Dashboard')
const GoogleDrive = require('uppy/lib/plugins/GoogleDrive')
const uppy = Uppy()
uppy.use(Dashboard, {
  trigger: '#uppyModalOpener'
})
uppy.use(GoogleDrive, {target: Dashboard})
```

In the example above the `Dashboard` gets rendered into an element with ID `uppy`, while `GoogleDrive` is rendered into the `Dashboard` itself.

### `endpoint`

Used by uploader plugins, such as [Tus](/docs/tus) and [XHRUpload](/docs/xhrupload). Expects a `string` with a url that will be used for file uploading.

### `host`

Used by remote provider plugins, such as Google Drive, Instagram or Dropbox. Specifies the url to your running `uppy-server`. This allows uppy to know what server to connect to when server related operations are required by the provider plugin.

```js
// for Google Drive
const GoogleDrive = require('uppy/lib/plugins/GoogleDrive')
uppy.use(GoogleDrive, {target: Dashboard, host: 'http://localhost:3020'})
```

### `replaceTargetContent: false`

By default Uppy will append any UI to a DOM element, if such element is specified as a `target`. This default is the least dangerous option. However, there might be cases when you’d want to clear the container element before place Uppy UI in there (for example, to provide a fallback `<form>` that will be shown if Uppy or JavaScript is not loaded/supported on the page). Set `replaceTargetContent: true` to clear the `target` before appending.

### `locale: {}`

Same as with Uppy.Core’s setting from above, this allows you to override plugin’s local string, so that instead of `Select files` in English, your users will see `Выберите файлы` in Russian. Example:

```js
.use(FileInput, {
  target: 'body',
  locale: {
    strings: { selectToUpload: 'Выберите файл для загрузки' }
  }
})
```

See plugin documentation pages for other plugin-specific options.

## Provider Plugins

The Provider plugins help you connect to your accounts with remote file providers such as [Dropbox](https://dropbox.com), [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com), [Instagram](https://instagram.com). Because this requires server to server communication, they work tightly with [uppy-server](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy-server) to manage the server to server authroization for your account. Virtually most of the communication (file download/upload) is done on the server-to-server end, so this saves you the stress of data consumption on the client.

As of now, the supported providers are **Dropbox**, **GoogleDrive**, and **Instagram**.

Usage of the Provider plugins is not that different from any other *acquirer* plugin, except that it takes an extra option `host`, which specifies the url to your running `uppy-server`. This allows Uppy to know what server to connect to when server related operations are required by the provider plugin. Here's a quick example.

```js
const Uppy = require('uppy/lib/core')
const DragDrop = require('uppy/lib/plugins/Dashboard')
const uppy = Uppy()
uppy.use(Dashboard, {
  trigger: '#uppyModalOpener',
  target: '#uppy',
})

// for Google Drive
const GoogleDrive = require('uppy/lib/plugins/GoogleDrive')
uppy.use(GoogleDrive, {target: Dashboard, host: 'http://localhost:3020'})

// for Dropbox
const Dropbox = require('uppy/lib/plugins/Dropbox')
uppy.use(Dropbox, {target: Dashboard, host: 'http://localhost:3020'})

// for Instagram
const Instagram = require('uppy/lib/plugins/Instagram')
uppy.use(Instagram, {target: Dashboard, host: 'http://localhost:3020'})
```

Commit message:

add Form to list of plugins

website/src/docs/plugins.md, after:

---
title: "List & Common Options"
type: docs
permalink: docs/plugins/
order: 10
---

Plugins are what makes Uppy useful: they help select, manipulate and upload files.

- **Acquirers (various ways of picking files):**
  - [Dashboard](/docs/dashboard) — full featured sleek UI with file previews, metadata editing, upload/pause/resume/cancel buttons and more
  - [DragDrop](/docs/dragdrop) — plain and simple drag and drop area
  - [FileInput](/docs/fileinput) — even more plain and simple, just a button
  - [Provider Plugins](#Provider-Plugins) (remote sources that work through [Uppy Server](/docs/uppy-server/)): Instagram, GoogleDrive, Dropbox
  - [Webcam](/docs/webcam) — upload selfies or audio / video recordings
- **Uploaders:**
  - [Tus](/docs/tus) — uploads using the [tus](https://tus.io) resumable upload protocol
  - [XHRUpload](/docs/xhrupload) — classic multipart form uploads or binary uploads using XMLHTTPRequest
  - [AwsS3](/docs/aws-s3) — uploader for AWS S3
- **Progress:**
  - [ProgressBar](/docs/progressbar) — add a small YouTube-style progress bar at the top of the page
  - [StatusBar](/docs/statusbar) — advanced upload progress status bar
  - [Informer](/docs/informer) — show notifications
- **Helpers:**
  - [GoldenRetriever](/docs/golden-retriever) — restore files and continue uploading after a page refresh or a browser crash
  - [Form](/docs/form) — collect metadata from `<form>` right before Uppy upload, then optionally append results back to the form
- **Encoding Services:**
  - [Transloadit](/docs/transloadit) — manipulate and transcode uploaded files using the [transloadit.com](https://transloadit.com) service

## Common Options

Each plugin can have any number of options (please see specific plugin for details), but these are shared between some:

### `target`

Can be a `string` CSS selector, a DOM element, or a Plugin class. Consider the following example, where `DragDrop` plugin will be rendered into a `body` element:

```js
const Uppy = require('uppy/lib/core')
const DragDrop = require('uppy/lib/plugins/DragDrop')
const uppy = Uppy()
uppy.use(DragDrop, { target: 'body' })
// or: uppy.use(DragDrop, { target: document.body })
```

While in this one, we are using the `Dashboard` plugin, which can act as a host target for other plugins:

```js
const Uppy = require('uppy/lib/core')
const DragDrop = require('uppy/lib/plugins/Dashboard')
const GoogleDrive = require('uppy/lib/plugins/GoogleDrive')
const uppy = Uppy()
uppy.use(Dashboard, {
  trigger: '#uppyModalOpener'
})
uppy.use(GoogleDrive, {target: Dashboard})
```

In the example above the `Dashboard` gets rendered into an element with ID `uppy`, while `GoogleDrive` is rendered into the `Dashboard` itself.

### `endpoint`

Used by uploader plugins, such as [Tus](/docs/tus) and [XHRUpload](/docs/xhrupload). Expects a `string` with a url that will be used for file uploading.

### `host`

Used by remote provider plugins, such as Google Drive, Instagram or Dropbox. Specifies the url to your running `uppy-server`. This allows uppy to know what server to connect to when server related operations are required by the provider plugin.

```js
// for Google Drive
const GoogleDrive = require('uppy/lib/plugins/GoogleDrive')
uppy.use(GoogleDrive, {target: Dashboard, host: 'http://localhost:3020'})
```

### `replaceTargetContent: false`

By default Uppy will append any UI to a DOM element, if such element is specified as a `target`. This default is the least dangerous option. However, there might be cases when you’d want to clear the container element before place Uppy UI in there (for example, to provide a fallback `<form>` that will be shown if Uppy or JavaScript is not loaded/supported on the page). Set `replaceTargetContent: true` to clear the `target` before appending.

### `locale: {}`

Same as with Uppy.Core’s setting from above, this allows you to override plugin’s local string, so that instead of `Select files` in English, your users will see `Выберите файлы` in Russian. Example:

```js
.use(FileInput, {
  target: 'body',
  locale: {
    strings: { selectToUpload: 'Выберите файл для загрузки' }
  }
})
```

See plugin documentation pages for other plugin-specific options.

## Provider Plugins

The Provider plugins help you connect to your accounts with remote file providers such as [Dropbox](https://dropbox.com), [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com), [Instagram](https://instagram.com). Because this requires server to server communication, they work tightly with [uppy-server](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy-server) to manage the server to server authroization for your account. Virtually most of the communication (file download/upload) is done on the server-to-server end, so this saves you the stress of data consumption on the client.

As of now, the supported providers are **Dropbox**, **GoogleDrive**, and **Instagram**.

Usage of the Provider plugins is not that different from any other *acquirer* plugin, except that it takes an extra option `host`, which specifies the url to your running `uppy-server`. This allows Uppy to know what server to connect to when server related operations are required by the provider plugin. Here's a quick example.

```js
const Uppy = require('uppy/lib/core')
const DragDrop = require('uppy/lib/plugins/Dashboard')
const uppy = Uppy()
uppy.use(Dashboard, {
  trigger: '#uppyModalOpener',
  target: '#uppy',
})

// for Google Drive
const GoogleDrive = require('uppy/lib/plugins/GoogleDrive')
uppy.use(GoogleDrive, {target: Dashboard, host: 'http://localhost:3020'})

// for Dropbox
const Dropbox = require('uppy/lib/plugins/Dropbox')
uppy.use(Dropbox, {target: Dashboard, host: 'http://localhost:3020'})

// for Instagram
const Instagram = require('uppy/lib/plugins/Instagram')
uppy.use(Instagram, {target: Dashboard, host: 'http://localhost:3020'})
```
