website/src/docs/progressbar.md, before:

---
type: docs
order: 23
title: "ProgressBar"
permalink: docs/progress-bar/
alias: docs/progressbar/
---

ProgressBar is a minimalist plugin that shows the current upload progress in a thin bar element, similar to the ones used by YouTube and GitHub when navigating between pages.

```js
const ProgressBar = require('@uppy/progress-bar')

uppy.use(ProgressBar, {
  // Options
})
```

[Try it live](/examples/dragdrop/) - The DragDrop example uses ProgressBars to show progress.

## Options

```js
uppy.use(ProgressBar, {
  target: '.UploadForm',
  fixed: false,
  hideAfterFinish: true
})
```

### `id: 'ProgressBar'`

A unique identifier for this ProgressBar. Defaults to `'ProgressBar'`. Use this if you need to add multiple ProgressBar instances.

### `target: null`

DOM element, CSS selector, or plugin to mount the progress bar into.

### `fixed: false`

When true, show the progress bar at the top of the page with `position: fixed`. When false, show the progress bar inline wherever it is mounted.

```js
uppy.use(ProgressBar, {
  target: 'body',
  fixed: true
})
```

### `hideAfterFinish: true`

When true, hides the progress bar after the upload has finished. If false, it remains visible.

### `replaceTargetContent: false`

Remove all children of the `target` element before mounting the ProgressBar. By default, Uppy will append any UI to the `target` DOM element. This is the least dangerous option. However, you may have some fallback HTML inside the `target` element in case JavaScript or Uppy is not available. In that case you can set `replaceTargetContent: true` to clear the `target` before appending.

Commit message:

Add install instruction to each plugin documentation page.

website/src/docs/progressbar.md, after:

---
type: docs
order: 23
title: "ProgressBar"
permalink: docs/progress-bar/
alias: docs/progressbar/
---

ProgressBar is a minimalist plugin that shows the current upload progress in a thin bar element, similar to the ones used by YouTube and GitHub when navigating between pages.

```js
const ProgressBar = require('@uppy/progress-bar')

uppy.use(ProgressBar, {
  // Options
})
```

[Try it live](/examples/dragdrop/) - The DragDrop example uses ProgressBars to show progress.

## Installation

This plugin is published as the `@uppy/progress-bar` package.

```shell
npm install @uppy/progress-bar
```

## Options

```js
uppy.use(ProgressBar, {
  target: '.UploadForm',
  fixed: false,
  hideAfterFinish: true
})
```

### `id: 'ProgressBar'`

A unique identifier for this ProgressBar. Defaults to `'ProgressBar'`. Use this if you need to add multiple ProgressBar instances.

### `target: null`

DOM element, CSS selector, or plugin to mount the progress bar into.

### `fixed: false`

When true, show the progress bar at the top of the page with `position: fixed`. When false, show the progress bar inline wherever it is mounted.

```js
uppy.use(ProgressBar, {
  target: 'body',
  fixed: true
})
```

### `hideAfterFinish: true`

When true, hides the progress bar after the upload has finished. If false, it remains visible.

### `replaceTargetContent: false`

Remove all children of the `target` element before mounting the ProgressBar. By default, Uppy will append any UI to the `target` DOM element. This is the least dangerous option. However, you may have some fallback HTML inside the `target` element in case JavaScript or Uppy is not available. In that case you can set `replaceTargetContent: true` to clear the `target` before appending.
